Introduction

WHO IS THE ENTJ PERSONALITY TYPE?
ENTJ (Commander) is a personality type with the Extraverted, Intuitive, Thinking, and Judging traits. They are decisive people who love momentum and accomplishment. They gather information to construct their creative visions but rarely hesitate for long before acting on them.
People with the ENTJ personality type (Commanders) are natural-born leaders. Embodying the gifts of charisma and confidence, ENTJs project authority in a way that draws crowds together behind a common goal. However, these personalities are also characterized by an often ruthless level of rationality, using their drive, determination, and sharp mind to achieve whatever objectives they’ve set for themselves. Their intensity might sometimes rub people the wrong way, but ultimately, ENTJs take pride in both their work ethic and their impressive level of self-discipline.
ENTJ personalities perceive themselves to be a strong positive influence on others.

Striving for Greatness
If there’s anything that people with this personality type love, it’s a good challenge, big or small, and they firmly believe that, given enough time and resources, they can achieve any goal. This quality makes ENTJs brilliant entrepreneurs, and their ability to think strategically and hold a long-term focus while executing each step of their plans with determination and precision makes them powerful business leaders.
This determination is often a self-fulfilling prophecy, as ENTJ personalities push their goals through with sheer willpower where others might give up and move on, and they are likely to push everyone else right along with them, achieving spectacular results in the process.
At the negotiating table, be it in a corporate environment or buying a car, ENTJs are dominant, unforgiving, and unyielding. This isn’t because they are coldhearted or vicious per se – it’s more that these personalities genuinely enjoy the challenge, the battle of wits, and the repartee that comes from this environment. If the other side can’t keep up, that’s no reason for them to fold on their own core tenet of ultimate victory.
The underlying thought running through an ENTJ’s mind might be something like “I don’t care if you call me an insensitive b*****d, as long as I remain an efficient b*****d.”
ENTJs respect those who can match them intellectually and also display precision and quality in their actions, equal to their own. These personalities have a particular skill in recognizing the talents of others, and this helps in their team-building efforts (since no one, no matter how brilliant, can do everything alone). However, they also have a particular skill in calling out others’ failures with a chilling degree of insensitivity, and this is where they really start to run into trouble.

A Worthy Challenge
Emotional expression isn’t the strong suit of any Analyst (NT) type, but ENTJs’ distance from their emotions is especially public and felt directly by a much broader swath of people. Especially in a professional environment, these personalities may inadvertently overlook the emotional sensitivity of individuals who they perceive as inefficient or lazy. To people with this personality type, emotional displays are generally displays of weakness, and it’s easy to make enemies with this approach – ENTJs will do well to remember that they absolutely depend on having a functioning team, not just to achieve their goals but for their validation and feedback as well, something that they are, curiously, very sensitive to.
ENTJ personalities are true powerhouses, and they cultivate an image of being larger than life – and often enough they are. They need to remember, though, that their stature comes not just from their own actions but from the actions of the team that props them up. It’s important for them to recognize the contributions, talents, and needs of their support network – especially from an emotional standpoint. Even if they have to adopt a “fake it ‘til you make it” mentality, if people with the ENTJ personality type are able to combine an emotionally healthy focus alongside their many strengths, they will be rewarded with deep, satisfying relationships and all the challenging victories that they can handle.


Strengths & Weaknesses

ENTJ Strengths
Efficient – People with the ENTJ personality type (Commanders) see inefficiency not just as a problem in its own right but as something that pulls time and energy away from all their future goals, an elaborate sabotage consisting of irrationality and laziness. They will root out such behavior wherever they go.
Energetic – ENTJ personalities approach their responsibilities with vigor and drive. This is not a type to shy away from busy schedules or complex challenges. In fact, the more they are able to accomplish throughout the day, the more energized they feel, and they will happily share this infectious enthusiasm for productivity with the people around them.
Self-Confident – ENTJs generally make their opinions known, trust in their abilities to get things done, and believe in their capacities as leaders. They are the most likely personality type to say they feel confident facing life’s day-to-day challenges.
Strong-Willed – People with the ENTJ personality type don’t give up when the going gets tough. Instead, they relentlessly strive to achieve their goals. Nothing is quite as satisfying to them as accomplishing something that they’ve set their mind to.
Strategic Thinkers – ENTJ personalities exemplify the difference between moment-to-moment crisis management and navigating the challenges and steps of a bigger plan. They are known for examining every angle of a problem and not just resolving momentary issues but moving the whole project forward with their solutions.
Charismatic and Inspiring – All of the strengths listed above combine to create individuals who are able to inspire and invigorate others, and this in turn helps ENTJs to accomplish their most ambitious goals, which could never be finished alone.

ENTJ Weaknesses
Stubborn and Dominant – Sometimes all this confidence and willpower can go too far. ENTJ personalities are all too capable of digging in their heels, trying to win every single debate, and only pushing for their vision without considering the input of others.
Intolerant – “It’s my way or the highway” – People with the ENTJ personality type are notoriously unsupportive of ideas that distract from their primary goals and even more so of ideas based on emotional considerations. They won’t hesitate to make that fact clear to those around them.
Impatient – Some people need more time to think than others – an intolerable delay to quick-thinking ENTJ personalities. They may misinterpret contemplation as stupidity or disinterest in their haste – a terrible mistake to make.
Arrogant – ENTJs respect quick thoughts and firm convictions and may look down on those who don’t match up. This is a challenge for most other personality types, who are perhaps not timid in their own right but will seem so beside this sometimes overbearing type.
Poor Handling of Emotions – At times, ENTJ personalities can be distant from their own emotional expression and sometimes downright scornful of others’. People with this personality type often trample others’ feelings, inadvertently hurting their partners and friends, especially in emotionally charged situations.
Cold and Ruthless – Their obsession with efficiency and unwavering belief in the merits of rationalism, especially professionally, make ENTJs fairly insensitive in pursuing their goals, dismissing personal circumstances, sensitivities, and preferences as irrational or irrelevant.


Romantic Relationships

People with the ENTJ personality type (Commanders) tend to approach dating and relationships with a set of goals and a plan to achieve them, and they proceed to do so with impressive energy and enthusiasm. These personalities are in it to win and will gladly take leading roles in relationships from the start, assuming personal responsibility for how smoothly things go and working actively to ensure a mutually rewarding experience. Romantic relationships are a serious business, and ENTJs are in it for the long haul.

Taking the Lead
This sense of personal responsibility means that they put a lot of energy into their relationships, and they show their creativity by always having something new on the agenda to keep things interesting, especially in the dating phase. At the same time though, ENTJ personalities keep their eyes on the long term, and if they determine that a relationship is heading toward a dead end, they perhaps too easily cut their losses and move on in what will seem to their partner an abrupt end to the attention they had been receiving.
This occasional ruthlessness with personal relationships is ENTJs’ primary weakness, and if these personalities aren’t careful, they can develop quite the reputation. Sensing others’ feelings and emotions will never be a comfortable skill for them, but it is critical that they work consciously to develop it, both for their partner’s sake and for their own healthy emotional expression. If they don’t, they risk dominating and overruling their partner, and this insensitivity can easily break a relationship, especially early on.

Loving Boldly
But if all goes well in the dating phase and a future is deemed viable, people with the ENTJ personality type continue to impress with their creativity and energy. They are known to bring out the best in their partner, pushing them to achieve their dreams and aspirations. Their ambitious nature often fuels their partner’s ambitions as well, creating a power-couple dynamic.
Being extremely growth-oriented themselves, ENTJs also love to improve and evolve in their relationships. They tend to listen to and act on their partner’s criticisms, so long as they are logical ones, and they are always striving to become the best version of themselves – for both their own good and the good of their partner. It can be surprising to these personalities – and perhaps bad news for their relationship – if their partner doesn’t share this desire to grow.
That being said, people with this personality type would do well to remember that their approach is just one angle of a multifaceted spectrum of alternatives. While they may view criticism as the most efficient route (and they’re often right), they should bear in mind that their partner may be more interested in a more emotional form of support and growth, an area of self-improvement that ENTJs themselves too often avoid.
As with most things, balance is key, and people with the ENTJ personality type should strive to meet their partner halfway, whatever their needs – be it through honest criticisms or steady emotional support and praise.
Mature ENTJs are able to recognize and adapt to the needs of their partner and know that even the most rational individuals still have emotional needs that must be met. Fortunately, the same logic that dismisses emotions is also able to recognize that a conciliatory attitude can be the best tool to get the job done. With their strong senses of responsibility and dedication, people with the ENTJ personality type are sure to make this effort, resulting in long-lasting, satisfying relationships.


Friendships

In friendship, people with the ENTJ personality type (Commanders) seek personal growth and inspiration, and they often have a plan for how to accomplish it. Friendships of circumstance, built on things like shared routines, are not this personality type’s preferred method. ENTJs prefer to seek out individuals who share their passion for deep, meaningful discussions and who enjoy learning and development as much as they do.
It is not always easy to be friends with ENTJs, as they demand a lot from these relationships. But they pay a great deal of attention to their friendships and will work hard to make sure that they are fulfilling, inspiring, and, most of all, conduits for mutual self-improvement.

Always up for a Challenge
ENTJ friendships are built on ideas and respect. Consequently, much of what they find enjoyable is the repartee of putting thoughts forward and defending them from assault from every angle. People with the ENTJ personality type value intelligence and are highly critical. They won’t back down if they are put on the defensive – in fact, there’s no better way to earn their admiration.
ENTJ personalities can sometimes come off as too dominating or impatient in friendships. However, they are usually well-intentioned, wanting only the best for their friends and for plans to run smoothly and efficiently.
Many different kinds of people can form strong friendships with these bold personalities, although more sensitive personality types might struggle from time to time if their ENTJ friend places too much emphasis on what is rational instead of trying to understand how they might be feeling. This lack of sensitivity is one of these personalities’ greatest weaknesses.
Their tendency to challenge their friends, question their conclusions, and dismiss emotional arguments as irrelevant may occasionally rub people the wrong way. However, once any problems are brought to their attention, people with the ENTJ personality type can be very curious about and open to trying to understand other people’s emotional perspectives.

Bridging the Gap
More enlightened ENTJs recognize that if there ever was an area where they could learn from others and improve themselves, it is in the realm of emotional sensitivity – to dismiss any aspect of personal growth borders on hypocrisy. Still, the bulk of their friends will likely share some passion for logical, far-reaching ideas and critical debate.
Anyone who can match ENTJs’ ability to brainstorm and theorize will find an honest and dedicated friend. Anyone who can’t or won’t, as with many more down-to-earth personality types who often question the point of such discussions, might find themselves being challenged with new ways of thinking – perhaps a situation that everyone involved can learn from.


Parenthood

As parents, most people with the ENTJ personality type (Commanders) are highly adept at spotting their children’s latent talents and nurturing these strengths. But they must, at times, temper their strong-willed, hyper-logical approach to life in order to make room for their children’s needs and feelings as they help them grow. This is simply to say that their relationships with children, who are typically more sensitive and less able to conduct truly rational analysis, require much more emotional tact and personal liberty than ENTJs are accustomed to giving.
But these resolute personalities are always up for a challenge. ENTJs take their roles as parents seriously and approach the task with the utmost sense of personal responsibility. Holding themselves to a higher standard than most, ENTJ parents see the success of their children as a reflection of those personal standards. They want nothing more than to see their kids grow into smart, independent people who strive to achieve their goals. Establishing specific moral values is less important to them than the cultivation of intellect and independent, rational thought.
ENTJ parents persistently motivate their children to meet, and often exceed, their potential, providing them with diverse opportunities to learn and grow.

Building Emotional Tolerance
ENTJ personalities welcome differences of opinion, and this is true with their children as well. But even though they will gladly have rational, well-thought-out discussions, at the end of the day, people with this personality type expect their authority to be respected. A disagreement is no excuse for shirking established responsibilities. ENTJ parents can be uncompromising in maintaining both structure and discipline. From time to time, this strictness can be a source of tension in the household. It would benefit these parents to remember that a little flexibility can go a long way.
That said, where ENTJ parents really run into trouble is when debates with their kids devolve into emotional appeals. Their weakness with emotional tolerance makes dealing with growing children a significant challenge. These personalities should strive to strengthen this skill, as young children don’t have the words to express their needs rationally, and adolescents often don’t have the patience for it.
By learning to listen to emotional expression as a valid form of communication and responding in kind, ENTJ parents can help to minimize emotional conflicts with their children and build trust.

Fostering Independence
These parents can strive to remember that a part of developing that necessary sense of independence is being able to chart one’s own destiny. Mature ENTJ personalities are able to take a deep breath and adapt their structures as their children grow. This often helps their children move beyond assigned activities and into the longer goal of becoming capable and intelligent young adults who can direct themselves.


Career Paths

It is in the world of careers that people with the ENTJ personality type (Commanders) shine. Here, their boldness and drive are truly at their best. No other personality type quite enjoys the hustle and grind of moving up the career ladder quite like they do. Their level of self-determination is unmatched. Combining their vision, intelligence, and willpower to push ideas through to completion no matter the obstacles, ENTJ personalities are a force to be reckoned with.

A Singular Vision
In the world of business, the sometimes overbearing level of self-confidence that ENTJs sometimes mishandle in their personal relationships is transformed into an admirable authority. They excel at keeping people on track and getting things done. Naturally, the careers that these driven personalities are often most drawn to make the fullest use of these qualities. Any position high enough that they can clearly see the horizon – like executive positions and careers in entrepreneurialism – tend to be valuable lines of work for people with this ambitious personality type.
For ENTJs, failure is not an option – they conceive a vision of the future, formulate a strategy to achieve that vision, and execute each step with ruthless precision.
Structure and order are key, and if someone gets sloppy or holds things back with incompetence, laziness, or inefficiency, these types may come down hard. ENTJ personalities pursue their goals with singular vision and have strict standards for themselves and others that are designed to be effective above all else. This makes ENTJs excellent corporate strategists, and their objectivity and clarity of thought make them respected lawyers and judges.
None of this could work if no one could understand what people with this personality type were thinking. Fortunately, ENTJ personalities are often clear and concise communicators, especially in person, making business administration a comfortable fit – so long as their tasks don’t stray too far into routine maintenance and upkeep. ENTJs also have a thirst for knowledge, and they aren’t afraid to use a principle once they’ve grasped its underlying mechanisms. Combining this with their leadership makes these personalities trying, but effective, university professors.

Great Expectations
The only problem is that it takes time for their skills to be recognized, and stagnating as low-level employees will have them bouncing off the walls and feeling deeply unhappy. People with the ENTJ personality type crave responsibility, growth, and opportunity, and they genuinely enjoy managing others to get a job done. These personalities are visionaries and leaders, not grunts or day-to-day administrators – at least in their own eyes. Getting that to be recognized is not always easy, but they are definitely up to the task.


Workplace Habits

For people with the ENTJ personality type (Commanders), the workplace is a natural habitat. ENTJs’ efficiency and clear communication are valued, their leadership is admired, and their ability to simply get things done is unrivaled. That being said, some situations are more appropriate for these bold personalities than others, as they prefer having the freedom to get their work done in a way that makes sense to them without being micromanaged. This can make work in any lower positions where they do not have personal autonomy a big challenge.
People with the ENTJ personality type are able to adapt themselves to just about any work hierarchy by doing what they do best: taking initiative, asserting their opinions, and accomplishing seemingly impossible feats.

ENTJ Subordinates
Subordinate positions can be challenging for these personalities, and it takes active management to ensure their satisfaction and engagement. Ever the high achievers, ENTJ subordinates set out to learn new skills and to seek out new challenges and responsibilities, eager to prove that nothing is impossible with a little hard work. If things get a little slow, they may make an effort to create work and make unnecessary changes, but when they feel involved in the projects around them, they prove well organized and well prioritized.
People with the ENTJ personality type hold themselves to very high standards, but a lot of what sets this tone is feedback from their environment – namely, criticism from their managers. Objective, rational statements about what is done right and what can be done better are helpful to this learning-oriented type, and far from resenting such criticisms, they appreciate them. Opportunities for growth keep ENTJ personalities engaged and productive, and so long as their managers recognize this as their primary responsibility, it will very likely be a fruitful and satisfying relationship.

ENTJ Colleagues
Among colleagues, ENTJs are sociable and greatly enjoy sharing ideas and critiques in their frequent brainstorming sessions. These ambitious personalities tend to insert themselves into positions of power in the workplace, considering their objectivity and charisma the perfect qualities for these roles. They will be the first to volunteer to lead a project or represent the team. But even though they love to be at the helm of the ship, people with the ENTJ personality type also enjoy working with those who have demonstrated that they too share a strong work ethic. On the other hand, anyone who they view as being less competent or driven will likely be met with a skeptical attitude.
ENTJ personalities are strong-willed, even dominant, and though they enjoy inspiring and tutoring others, the energy that they bring to the process can sometimes seem overbearing. When these roles are reversed, their mentors should bear in mind that their students are very rational and respect firm confidence – hand-holding, emotional appeals, or wavering indecision will likely weaken their ties.
In a work partnership, ENTJs feel that what is best is what is most effective, and time wasted sugarcoating reality is just that – time wasted.

ENTJ Managers
ENTJ managers are confident, charismatic communicators, and they communicate just one vision: to get the job done as efficiently as possible and to the highest standard of quality. All else is subordinate to that objective. And as the astute individuals that they are, people with the ENTJ personality type have an innate ability to identify the strengths of each member of their team and incorporate those abilities into their plan so that each individual fills a unique and important role.
While these efforts often boost morale and satisfaction among their like-minded subordinates, they are still crafted to achieve that ultimate goal of timely and exceptional work. Those who are seen as inefficient by their ENTJ managers or who demonstrate themselves to be lazy or to produce shoddy work will know in no uncertain terms of their failure to impress. That being said, these dedicated personalities don’t easily give up on any of their team members. They will work tirelessly to ensure that everyone can succeed in the responsibilities that they’ve been given, even if it means putting in some extra hours to get to the heart of any problem.


Conclusion

Armed with a powerful intellect and strategic thinking, people with the ENTJ personality type (Commanders) can overcome or outmaneuver obstacles that seem unbeatable to most. At the same time, their many quirks, such as often unconstrained rationalism, lead to many misunderstandings. Those misunderstandings end here. What you have read so far is just an introduction – we have a great deal more to tell you about the ENTJ personality type.
At some point in reading through your results, you probably hit a tipping point. You went from that trademark ENTJ skepticism to “huh...” to “wait, what?” You may even be a little uncomfortable because you are really not used to being understood, even by the people you’re closest to.
Chances are, you’ve accepted that as part of who you are, and maybe even grown proud of it. But embracing that disconnection isn’t a requirement for ENTJ personalities. It’s a misused defense mechanism, leading you down a lonely, inefficient path – gaining insight into yourself and others is so much more rewarding.
This is no date-of-birth gimmick, and no, we did not spy on you – rather, we’ve spent years studying ENTJs’ life stories, experiences, and patterns in hundreds of our surveys. Step by step, insight by insight, we discovered how those who share your qualities and outlook have overcome the challenges they’ve faced. You are a unique individual, but you are not alone in this. It’s wise to learn from others’ experiences – and we’d really like to share those insights with you.
As you move forward into the specialized guides and tests we offer, we go much deeper into the ENTJ mind. We answer not just “what”, but “why?”, “how?”, and “what if?” Why do you act the way you do? How do you find motivation and inspiration? What if you moved beyond fear to pursue what you secretly want to achieve in life?